.TH EYED3 "1" "@MANPAGE_DATE@" "eyeD3 @PACKAGE_VERSION@" ""
.SH "NAME"
.B eyeD3
\- displays and manipulates id3-tags on mp3 files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B eyeD3
.RI [ options ]
.RI file
.RI [ file... ]
.br
.B eyeD3
.RI [ options ]
.RI dir
.RI [ dir... ]
.br

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B eyeD3
Manipulates ID3 tags in mp3 files and is able to read/write and convert between
ID3 v1.0, v1.1, v2.3 and v2.4 tags.  High-level access is provided to most
frames, including APIC (i.e., images) frames.

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB\-h, \fB\-\-help\fR
Shows a brief help string and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-color\fR
Disable color output.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show all available tag information.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Trace program execution; for debugging.

.SH "TAG VERSIONS"
.TP
\fB\-1, \fB\-\-v1\fR
Only read/write ID3 v1 tags. By default, v1 tags are only read if there is
not a v2 tag.
.TP
\fB\-2, \fB\-\-v2\fR
Only read/write ID3 v2.x tags.
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-v1.1\fR
Convert the file's tag to ID3 v1.1. (Or 1.0 if there is no track number)
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-v2.3\fR
Convert the file's tag to ID3 v2.3.
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-v2.4\fR
Convert the file's tag to ID3 v2.4

.SH "TAG DATA"
Options for manipulating tag data have the side-effect of removing a frame
when the data specified is the empty string.  For example, --artist="" 
(or -a "") would cause the artist frame to be removed.  This is especially
useful for removing comment frames.

.TP
\fB-a \fRSTRING, \fB\-\-artist=\fRSTRING\fR
Set artist the to STRING.
.TP
\fB-A \fRSTRING, \fB\-\-album=\fRSTRING\fR
Set album to STRING.
.TP
\fB-t \fRSTRING, \fB\-\-title=\fRSTRING\fR
Set track title to STRING.
.TP
\fB-n \fRNUM, \fB\-\-track=\fRNUM\fR
Set track number to NUM.
.TP
\fB-N \fRNUM, \fB\-\-track\-total=\fRNUM\fR
Set total number of tracks to NUM.
.TP
\fB-G \fRSTRING, \fB\-\-genre=\fRSTRING\fR
Sets genre to STRING. (See --list-genres)
.TP
\fB-Y \fRYEAR, \fB\-\-year=\fRYEAR\fR
Set the four digit year.
.TP
\fB-p \fRSTRING, \fB\-\-publisher=\fRSTRING\fR
Set the publisher/label text.
.TP
\fB\-\-comment=\fR[LANGUAGE]:DESCRIPTION:COMMENT\fR
Add (or remove when COMMENT is "") a comment.  Note that the argument value
MUST always contain exactly two ':' characters to delimit the fields even
when the default language is being used.  The DESCRIPTION string is the
comment title.
The optional LANGUAGE string MUST be a three-character ISO 639
language code.  The default is "eng" for English.

A tag may not have more than one comment frame with the same DESCRIPTION and
LANGUAGE values. 
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-comments\fR
Remove all comment frames from the tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-lyrics=\fR[LANGUAGE]:DESCRIPTION:LYRICS\fR
Add (or remove when LYRICS is "") a comment.  Note that the argument value
MUST always contain exactly two ':' characters to delimit the fields even
when the default language is being used.  The DESCRIPTION string is the
lyrics title.
The optional LANGUAGE string MUST be a three-character ISO 639
language code.  The default is "eng" for English.

A tag may not have more than one lyrics frame with the same DESCRIPTION and
LANGUAGE values. 
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-lyrics\fR
Remove all lyrics frames from the tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-image=\fRIMG_PATH:TYPE[:DESCRIPTION]\fR
Add an image to the tag (APIC frame). 
The IMG_PATH is the image file to add to the tag. If the path value is empty
the image frame with a value of TYPE is removed from the tag.
The TYPE is one of the types listed when 'eyeD3 --list-image-types' is run.
The DESCRIPTION is optional and will default to "".  

A tag may not have more than one image frame with the same TYPE values. 
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-images\fR
Remove all image (APIC) frames from the tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-object=\fROBJ_PATH[:DESCRIPTION[:MIME-TYPE[:FILENAME]]]\fR
Add an encapsulated object to the tag (GEOB frame).  The description
and filename are optional, but when used, the ':'
delimiters must be present.  If the OBJ_PATH value is
empty the GEOB frame with DESCRIPTION is removed.

A tag may not have more than one object (GEOB) frame with the same DESCRIPTION
values. 
.TP
\fB\-i \fRDIR, \fB\-\-write\-images=\fRDIR\fR
Causes all attached images (APIC frames) to be written to the specified
directory.  They are named by their "image type".  For example, if the image
is a png and the type is OTHER, a file named OTHER.png is written to the
desired directory.  If the file name already exist, a unique numeric value is
appended to the type string.
.TP
\fB\-o \fRDIR, \fB\-\-write\-objects=\fRDIR\fR
Causes all attached objects (GEOB frames) to be written
to the specified directory.  The files are written with the name
"<filename>.<mime-subtype>" in the specified directory.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-text\-frame=\fRFID:TEXT\fR
Set the value of a specific (i.e., FID) text frame.  To remove the frame,
specify an empty value.  e.g., --set-text-frame="TDRC:"
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-user\-text\-frame=\fRDESC:TEXT\fR
Set the value of a TXXX text frame with a unique description.
To remove the frame, specify an empty value.
e.g., --set-user-text-frame="Description:"
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-url\-frame=\fRFID:URL\fR
Set the value of a specific (i.e., FID) URL frame.  To remove the frame,
specify an empty URL.  e.g., --set-url-frame="WCOM:"
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-user\-url\-frame=\fRDESC:URL\fR
Set the value of a WXXX frame with unique description string.
To remove the frame, specify an empty URL.
e.g., --set-user-url-frame="Description:"
.TP
\fB\-\-play\-count=\fR[+]N\fR
Set the play count (PCNT). If the argument value begins with '+' the value is
incremented by N, otherwise it is set to exactly N.
.TP
\fB\-\-bpm=\fRN\fR
Set the beats per minute value.  The value MUST be greater than 0.
.TP
\fB\-\-unique\-file-id=\fROWNER_ID:ID\fR
Add a UFID frame.  If the ID arg is empty the UFID frame with OWNER_ID is
removed.  An OWNER_ID MUST be specified.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-encoding=\fRlatin1|utf8|utf16-LE|utf16-BE\fR
Set the encoding that is used for _all_ text frames in the tag. The encoding
is applied only when the tag is updated, therefore a frame must be set or
--force-update is present.  Note that, unfortunately, utf8 is not supported
by ID3 v2.3 tags.
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-v1\fR
Remove ID3 v1.x tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-v2\fR
Remove ID3 v2.x tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-remove-all\fR
Remove all tags.

.SH "MISC. OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-rename=\fRPATTERN\fR
Rename the file based on PATTERN which may contain the following substitution
variables: %A (artist), %a (album), %t (title), %n (track number), and
%N (the total track count).  The PATTERN string MUST not contain the file
name extenstion.
.TP
\fB\-\-fs\-encoding=\fRENCODING\fR
Use the specified character encoding for filenames when renaming files.  The
default value is iso-8859-1.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-genres\fR
Display the table of "valid" ID3 genres and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-image\-types\fR
List all possible image types for APIC frames.
.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Fail for tags that violate the ID3 specification.
.TP
\fB\-\-jep\-118\fR
Output the tag per the format described in JEP-0118.
See http://www.xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0118.html
.TP
\fB\-\-nfo\fR
Output NFO information for each album directory.
.TP
\fB\-\-lametag\fR
Prints the LAME Tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-update\fR
Update the tag regardless of whether any frames were set on the command line.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-zero\-padding\fR
Don't pad track or disc numbers with 0's.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-tagging\-time\-frame\fR
When saving tags do not add a TDTG (tagging time) frame.
.TP
\fB-F \fRDELIM\fR
Specify a new delimiter for option values that contain multiple fields
(default delimiter is ':')

.SH SEE ALSO
http://eyed3.nicfit.net/

.SH AUTHOR
eyeD3 was written by Travis Shirk <travis@pobox.com>. This manpage was written
by Alexander Wirt <formorer@debian.org> for the Debian Distribution and Travis
Shirk.
